README.md, before:

# Data Science and Analytics Portfolio

This GitHub repository contains some data projects that I have worked on. The purpose of this repository is to showcase the skills and techniques I learn along the way as I go forward with my career in the professional data field.

## [Predicting Successful Loan Payments Using Several Machine Learning Models](https://github.com/youngnguyen1/Loan-Classification-Models)

September 2022

After learning several different machine learning classification models, I wanted to put them to the test. Using a historical loan dataset, I was able to come up with predictions on whether or not a person would be able to pay off their loans based on varying factors. I have included my data science methodology as well as the final result of the predictions to showcase my work in exploratory data analysis, visualizations, and predictive modeling.

Models used:

* K Nearest Neighbors
* Decision Trees
* Support Vector Machine
* Logistic Regression

## [Web scraping GitHub Repositories](https://github.com/youngnguyen1/web-scraping-github)

August 2022

This project uses the Python BeautifulSoup Library to scrape the contents of GitHub pages. I extracted key information from popular repositories from the GitHub Topics page using the html content of the page. The code also writes that information into different csv files for each repository.

## [Sentiment Analysis on Yelp Reviews](https://github.com/youngnguyen1/yelp-sentiment-analysis)


July 2022

This project takes a labeled dataset of Yelp reviews, splits it into test and trainging sets using Scikit Learn, and fits it to a Naive Bayes Algorithm. We can check the accuracy of the model as well as calculate the probability of a prediction being correct. This project can easily be scaled to fit similar review platforms such as IMDB or Google reviews.

Commit message:

Added Rocket Launch Prediction Project

README.md, after:

# Data Science and Analytics Portfolio

This GitHub repository contains some data projects that I have worked on. The purpose of this repository is to showcase the skills and techniques I learn along the way as I go forward with my career in the professional data field.

## [Successful Rocket Launch Prediction Model]([https://github.com/youngnguyen1/Loan-Classification-Models](https://github.com/youngnguyen1/IBM-Data-Science-Capstone)

October 2022

This project puts together most of what I have learned from my Data Analyst and Data Science Certificates to build a machine learning model that will predict a successful or failed SpaceX Falcon 9 Landing. Space X's Falcon 9 Rocket has a reusable first stage. Being able to reuse the first stage saves the company a lot of money as opposed to building a new one for each rocket launch. However, the success rate of their landing is not 100%. In this project, I build a machine learning model to predict whether or not the first stage will land successfully. Being able to predict this is beneficial for the company so that they understand the true cost of the rocket launch, and so they can take necessary preventative measures.

## [Predicting Successful Loan Payments Using Several Machine Learning Models](https://github.com/youngnguyen1/Loan-Classification-Models)

September 2022

After learning several different machine learning classification models, I wanted to put them to the test. Using a historical loan dataset, I was able to come up with predictions on whether or not a person would be able to pay off their loans based on varying factors. I have included my data science methodology as well as the final result of the predictions to showcase my work in exploratory data analysis, visualizations, and predictive modeling.

Models used:

* K Nearest Neighbors
* Decision Trees
* Support Vector Machine
* Logistic Regression

## [Web scraping GitHub Repositories](https://github.com/youngnguyen1/web-scraping-github)

August 2022

This project uses the Python BeautifulSoup Library to scrape the contents of GitHub pages. I extracted key information from popular repositories from the GitHub Topics page using the html content of the page. The code also writes that information into different csv files for each repository.

## [Sentiment Analysis on Yelp Reviews](https://github.com/youngnguyen1/yelp-sentiment-analysis)


July 2022

This project takes a labeled dataset of Yelp reviews, splits it into test and trainging sets using Scikit Learn, and fits it to a Naive Bayes Algorithm. We can check the accuracy of the model as well as calculate the probability of a prediction being correct. This project can easily be scaled to fit similar review platforms such as IMDB or Google reviews.
